clfgnar2k000d09l83j5l9dxc.md, before:

---
title: "What is DevOps and it's Fundamentals"
datePublished: Mon Mar 20 2023 09:49:32 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
cuid: clfgnar2k000d09l83j5l9dxc
slug: what-is-devops-and-its-fundamentals
ogImage: https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305751544/5072352f-e761-4ffe-b78d-7a891e6a0277.png
tags: devops

---

DevOps is a software engineering culture and practice that aims to enhance collaboration and communication between development and operations teams. The goal of DevOps is to improve the speed and reliability of software releases by automating the build, test, and deployment processes.

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305098498/dfc274b8-b23b-4e71-be34-bdfa643f6d68.png align="center")

One way to think about DevOps is as a culture of continuous improvement, where development, operations, and QA teams work together to optimize the software development lifecycle. This often involves using automation tools and implementing agile and lean principles.

**There are many practices that can be followed as part of a DevOps approach, but some common ones include:**

* Continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD): This involves automating the build, test, and release process for code changes, allowing developers to deploy code more frequently and with fewer errors.
    
* Infrastructure as code (IaC): This involves managing infrastructure (e.g., servers, networks) using code, which allows for more predictable and repeatable deployments and makes it easier to version and track changes.
    
* Monitoring and logging: This involves collecting and analyzing data about the performance and usage of software in production, which can help identify issues and improve reliability.
    
* Collaboration and communication: DevOps relies on effective communication and collaboration between developers and IT professionals, as well as cross-functional teamwork within the organization.
    

**There are many tools that are commonly used in DevOps. Some examples include:**

* Version control systems like Git and Mercurial
    

![Git](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305273718/96d1f2f0-fc4e-4c5e-83b9-529ade7886ea.png align="center")

* Configuration management tools like Ansible and Puppet
    

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305389021/5944cdf2-85cd-41aa-904b-eb6f8fa4f3f8.png align="center")

* Containerization tools like Docker and Kubernetes
    

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305429868/710effbb-86f4-474d-b0aa-1e727036c47d.png align="center")

* Monitoring tools like Nagios and Grafana.
    

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305455983/0f7d9dbe-ef22-419e-a1cc-0b33d4816928.png align="center")

* Continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) tools like Jenkins
    
    ![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305554952/6ec550e6-1d16-4726-959d-fba3177cfb23.jpeg align="center")
    
* Log analysis tools like Splunk and ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana)
    

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305490887/4117196c-d052-44b5-b99e-0bd4e263f7d1.png align="center")

These are just a few examples, and the specific tools used can depend on the needs of the organization and the technologies being used.

**To learn DevOps at an industrial level, you can consider the following options:**

1. Take online courses: Many online courses can teach you the principles and practices of DevOps. These courses often include video lectures, hands-on exercises, and assessments.
    
2. Get certified: Getting certified in DevOps can demonstrate your knowledge and skills to potential employers. There are several certification programs available, such as the Certified DevOps Engineer (CDE) and the DevOps Institute Certified Professional (DCP).
    
3. Join a professional community: There are many online communities and forums where you can connect with other professionals interested in DevOps. These communities can be a great resource for learning about new tools and techniques, as well as for getting feedback on your work.
    
4. Join a DevOps team: The best way to learn DevOps is to get hands-on experience working on a DevOps team. You can try finding internships or entry-level positions at companies that practice DevOps.

Commit message:

update post: What is DevOps and it's Fundamentals

clfgnar2k000d09l83j5l9dxc.md, after:

---
title: "What is DevOps and it's Fundamentals"
seoTitle: "What is DevOps and it's Fundamentals"
seoDescription: "What is DevOps and it's Fundamentals"
datePublished: Mon Mar 20 2023 09:49:32 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
cuid: clfgnar2k000d09l83j5l9dxc
slug: what-is-devops-and-its-fundamentals
ogImage: https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305751544/5072352f-e761-4ffe-b78d-7a891e6a0277.png
tags: linux, docker, devops

---

DevOps is a software engineering culture and practice that aims to enhance collaboration and communication between development and operations teams. The goal of DevOps is to improve the speed and reliability of software releases by automating the build, test, and deployment processes.

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305098498/dfc274b8-b23b-4e71-be34-bdfa643f6d68.png align="center")

One way to think about DevOps is as a culture of continuous improvement, where development, operations, and QA teams work together to optimize the software development lifecycle. This often involves using automation tools and implementing agile and lean principles.

**There are many practices that can be followed as part of a DevOps approach, but some common ones include:**

* Continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD): This involves automating the build, test, and release process for code changes, allowing developers to deploy code more frequently and with fewer errors.
    
* Infrastructure as code (IaC): This involves managing infrastructure (e.g., servers, networks) using code, which allows for more predictable and repeatable deployments and makes it easier to version and track changes.
    
* Monitoring and logging: This involves collecting and analyzing data about the performance and usage of software in production, which can help identify issues and improve reliability.
    
* Collaboration and communication: DevOps relies on effective communication and collaboration between developers and IT professionals, as well as cross-functional teamwork within the organization.
    

**There are many tools that are commonly used in DevOps. Some examples include:**

* Version control systems like Git and Mercurial
    

![Git](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305273718/96d1f2f0-fc4e-4c5e-83b9-529ade7886ea.png align="center")

* Configuration management tools like Ansible and Puppet
    

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305389021/5944cdf2-85cd-41aa-904b-eb6f8fa4f3f8.png align="center")

* Containerization tools like Docker and Kubernetes
    

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305429868/710effbb-86f4-474d-b0aa-1e727036c47d.png align="center")

* Monitoring tools like Nagios and Grafana.
    

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305455983/0f7d9dbe-ef22-419e-a1cc-0b33d4816928.png align="center")

* Continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) tools like Jenkins
    
    ![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305554952/6ec550e6-1d16-4726-959d-fba3177cfb23.jpeg align="center")
    
* Log analysis tools like Splunk and ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana)
    

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1679305490887/4117196c-d052-44b5-b99e-0bd4e263f7d1.png align="center")

These are just a few examples, and the specific tools used can depend on the needs of the organization and the technologies being used.

**To learn DevOps at an industrial level, you can consider the following options:**

1. Take online courses: Many online courses can teach you the principles and practices of DevOps. These courses often include video lectures, hands-on exercises, and assessments.
    
2. Get certified: Getting certified in DevOps can demonstrate your knowledge and skills to potential employers. There are several certification programs available, such as the Certified DevOps Engineer (CDE) and the DevOps Institute Certified Professional (DCP).
    
3. Join a professional community: There are many online communities and forums where you can connect with other professionals interested in DevOps. These communities can be a great resource for learning about new tools and techniques, as well as for getting feedback on your work.
    
4. Join a DevOps team: The best way to learn DevOps is to get hands-on experience working on a DevOps team. You can try finding internships or entry-level positions at companies that practice DevOps.
